I gave a TEDx talk at San Francisco State University.
Let's watch it and please notice the pop ups
that will be used to critique the content
delivery and slides.
And I know that we have not yet covered the delivery
and slide creation lectures yet,
but I want to introduce you to some of the
topics we're gonna cover in acts four and six.
Just to put on your radar screen as we discuss
and critique this video, thanks.
(applause)
Better to be deprived of food for three days
than tea for one.
Chinese proverb.
Come and share a pot of tea.
My home is warm and my friendship's free.
Emily Barnes.
Make tea not war, Monty Python.
Everybody loves tea.
When I was younger and I wasn't feeling well,
my mother would give me tea
and I'd feel much better.
For hundreds of years, tea was for medicinal
purposes only.
And then the British discovered it
and they realized that having tea is like
having a picnic indoors.
And I believe it was Sting who said,
I don't take coffee, I take tea my dear.
Tea is the quintessential olive branch.
And tea was actually introduced in Russia
by the Chinese government as a gift to
Tsar Alexis in the 1600s.
Tea knows no borders, tea is loved universally.
Now, tea in America became popular in the 1800s.
And green tea was very popular here.
And then by World War Two you couldn't get tea in America.
And so America started importing tea from India, black tea.
And since then black tea is the most popular
tea in the world.
Tea can change everything for us.
Tea can solve all of our problems.
T.E.A.
Technology, education, and acceptance.
Without all three of the aforementioned
pillars in place, we can't move forward as a society.
Without technology, education and acceptance are
wasted resources.
Without education, technology and acceptance
are wasted resources.
And without acceptance, we move back to the dark ages.
So, as we look to design our futures,
if we need to move forward, we need to embrace
all three of these items.
And I'm incredibly excited about the future.
If we embrace tea, again, we will solve all problems.
Now, at the root of this secular growth shift,
is the primary catalyst of cloud computing.
And I'll explain what I mean by this.
In 2005, Amazon created something called Amazon
web services which is the most important
technology platform the world has ever seen.
And Jeff Bezos cut the pricing point of Amazon
web services more than 50 times since 2005.
Now, if we compare and contrast this with
Microsoft Windows, Microsoft only cut
the pricing point of Windows three times going back
to the 1980s.
And so, what's happened is a lot of companies have been
running all of their technology processes
off of Amazon web services.
And these companies wouldn't exist today
if it wasn't for it.
What does this mean for education?
Well, these technology companies would not exist today,
they wouldn't be profitable.
These charities wouldn't even exist if
it weren't for cloud computing or
services like Amazon web services.
And so I believe that capitalism
and deflation can fix education.
Now, let's go back the the 1980s.
Everybody loves the '80s right?
And probably the most important event of the 1980s
was the fall of the Berlin wall.
A barrier came down.
And one of my fondest memories of the 1980s
was when the late, great Ronald Reagan gave
the most empowering speech.
And he went off script and he said a couple of words
that changed the world.
He said, Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall.
And the wall came down.
And it was Alan Greenspan at the time that said
the reason we had such incredible, prosperous
economic growth in the 1990s, without inflation,
and with low interest rates, was because
this barrier came down.
And when the great wall fell, pardon me, sorry,
the Berlin wall fell, what happened was,
you had a lot of very intelligent, and well educated
Eastern European labor moving west, right.
And that kept inflation in check.
There are significant issues when we build walls.
In 1948, in Berlin, allied nations had to fly
literally 200,000 planes over Berlin
and drop basic necessities, food and water.
Well, I believe that another basic necessity
is the right to education, as well.
And I'm worried that as more people get access to online
education, more firewalls will built,
we're building more walls.
There's a solution to this,
I'll talk about it in a couple minutes.
Okay, I've taken you to the '80s,
let's now go to the '90s which was another great decade.
And because the Berlin wall fell in 1989,
the top earners in the 1990s were traders,
bond traders and equity traders.
And I think that teachers are gonna be the bond
traders of the future.
I think that teaching is the most scalable
business model there is out there.
Think about it.
If you're a doctor, or god forbid a lawyer,
you can treat one patient at a time.
If you're a teacher, you can teach students in over
190 countries at the same time.
It's scalable.
And so, a lot of people want to teach.
A lot of government officials, business executives.
But quite often they say, I'll teach later in my career.
And what they're not saying is, they can't make
enough money doing it.
And I love teachers, because teachers are very passionate
about what they do.
They don't do it for the money.
That's a beautiful thing.
But now, everybody can teach, right.
You've got the economic incentive in place.
And so in the future, there's going to be many,
many more people with practical skills
that will be teaching.
And so there's a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow
and it's about time teachers get compensated.
And so, I'm very excited to be a part of this movement.
So, get ready for the multi decade ed-tech secular
growth opportunity.
Now, I've talked a bunch about the teacher,
I want to talk about the student now.
What a great time to be a student.
You got access to all this incredible stuff online
at very low prices.
And the amazing thing now about being a student
or a child, in the middle of almost every continent,
is you've got more power in your cell phone,
you've got more access to information,
and faster access to information than Bill Clinton did
in the 1990s.
And one of these cell phones or smart phones today
has more processing power than every single computer
in the world in 1969 that was used to
put the first person on the moon.
And there's two billion of these things.
How could you not be excited about this?
And so, the platform that we'll use for students
going forward in the future, is of course, mobile.
And the future is now.
It's time.
It's time for the democratization of education.
A cup of tea is a cup of peace.
Soshitsu Sen.
Every single problem in the world can
be solved with Ed-tech.
Every single problem without exception.
And I want to urge our politicians in Washington,
and everywhere in the world,
to wake up and realize, respectfully,
that if we're going to progress as a society,
we need to understand that education fixes all problems.
And the problem with Washington and Wall Street,
and business in general, is everybody
is so short term focused.
And because everyone's so short term focused,
I'm afraid we might move back to the dark ages.
If we were long term focused,
and we looked at education as solution to all problems,
we as a society would progress.
And so, I've taken you to the '90s,
I've taken you to the '80s.
We're gonna skip the '70s cause the '70s was a drag.
And we're gonna go back to the '60s.
And I love JFK.
I mean, this guy was so long term focused,
his administration created the Peace Corps
and the Peace Corps did a lot of wonderful
things all over the world.
He was very long term focused.
And so peacecorps.org has done a lot of good.
And I challenge our politicians to create
a commensurate platform called globaledtechcorps.org.
And I just checked and that website is available
in case they want to register it.
If this is coffee, please bring me some tea;
but if this is tea, please bring me some coffee.
Abraham Lincoln.
Wouldn't it be dreadful to live in a country
where they don't have tea?
Professor Herb Meiberger.
One child, one teacher, one book,
one pen can change the world.
This was said by my hero, a young Pakistani woman,
who changed the world through one brave act.
She also had this to say,
let us pick up our books and our pens,
they are the most powerful weapons.
And then something tragic occurred,
on October 9th 2012.
Malala was shot, she was shot for demanding equal
rights to education for women.
She stood up for human rights.
God bless her.
And I think this day October 9, 2012 should be made
a global holiday.
Every year in every country so we can
observe the importance of education in improving society.
Now, what Malala did was she embraced education
and she embraced acceptance.
Imagine what we can do if she embraces technology,
as well, and adds it to her repertoire.
What would result is peace and love in every country,
in every city, in every house in the world.
It takes one person to stand up and change the world.
One person, I don't believe in sending troops
overseas to fight wars we can't win or understand.
I believe society can change from within.
And Malala is one person.
I think we're gonna get to a point where there's
thousands and millions of Malala's rising up,
using YouTube and using technology to change
the world from within.
This can happen if we allow it to.
And so, we all have the right to water.
We all have the right to air.
We all have the beautiful right of freedom of religion.
We can coexist together.
But there's one more thing I think that's just as important
as these three aforementioned fundamental rights.
And that's the right of unfiltered education
for everybody globally.
Thank God for tea!
What would the world do without tea?
How did it exist?
I am glad I was not born before tea.
Reverend Sydney Smith.
Come, let us have some tea and continue
to talk about happy things.
Rabbi Potok.
I want to talk about T.E.A. in government.
I want to talk about T.E.A. in humanitarian efforts.
I want to talk about T.E.A. in Facebook.
A lot of people don't realize that Mark Zuckerberg
had a big part to play with the Arab Spring.
My heroes that started the Arab Spring include
Walid and Jawad Nabulsi who's a good friend, as well.
And what happened was, Walid and Jawad and their
friends they created a Facebook group, pro human rights.
And at that time you were only allowed to have 5,000
people in each Facebook group.
And then Mark Zuckerberg found out about this,
and God bless him, he lifted the cap.
He lifted the cap and all of a sudden you had
hundreds of thousands of people marching in Cairo.
He did his part in helping to change the world
by embracing technology, education, and acceptance.
And I very humbly challenge our space pioneers,
Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, and Sir Richard Branson.
With great power comes great responsibility.
I challenge them to make education available to
everybody on the planet using technology.
It's not much of a stretch.
If you think about it, 1948, in one year,
we sent 200,000 flights over Berlin to drop
basic necessities, food and water.
Well, the right to unfiltered education is a basic
necessity, as well.
So, how can we achieve this?
Well, we already have the technology in place,
or we will very soon.
It might be a rendition of 6G, 7G, 8G, 9G,
whatever it might be.
But we need to come together and make this happen
as we're all in this together.
And so education is a right, education is freedom.
And the late, great Nelson Mandela said that
education is the most important weapon we can use
to change the world.
And I believe it.
Computer!
Tea.
Earl Grey.
Hot.
And whoever this Earl Grey fellow is,
I'd like to have a word with him.
Captain Jean-Luc Picard.
On Christmas day at half past three,
brew yourself a cup of tea.
I'll think if you.
You think of me.
While sitting round the Christmas tree.
Hallmark, I think.
And so, you may say I'm a dreamer.,
but I'm not the only one.
I hope some day you'll join us,
and the world will be as one.
John Lennon, of course.
Technology, education, and acceptance,
T.E.A. tea, can and will change the world
if we all choose to embrace it.
I hope next time when we meet,
we won't be fighting each other.
Instead we will be drinking tea together.
Jackie Chan.
Water is the mother of tea,
a teapot its father,
and fire the teacher.
Chinese proverb.
So, I wrote this speech when I was in Ireland.
And I was so inspired by the landscape
and so I want to finish it with this.
May you always have walls for the winds,
a roof for the rain,
tea beside the fire,
laughter to cheer you,
those you love near you,
and all your heart might desire.
An Irish blessing.
Thank you.
(applause)